Mutate-update-documentation (#934)
joakim-brannstrom/dextool: plugin/mutate/doc/design/options.md

- --db : Specify which sqlite3 database to use for the mutation testing (default: dextool_mutate.sqlite3). This option could be used when several databases exists for i.e. different versions of the code, or simply because the user have chosen to create several databases for result.

- --out : Path used as the root for mutation/reporting of files (default: .).

- --help [-h] : Display the help information in terminal window (less detailed). By writing, for example, *dextool mutate analyze --help*, the user will display the help for the analyze command.

## Admin
*Admin-mode for the plugin. Is used by to execute administrative commands and to initialize/setup mutation testing for a project.*

- --dump-config : Dump the detailed configuration in the terminal. Could be used to create and setup your own configuration-file.

- --init : Create an initial configuration to use in the current workspace. This command is used when the mutation testing is setup for a specific project the first time.

- --mutant : Mutants to operate on.

>     - *any* : Any mutant generated.

Reviewer: all mutants are generated. should be renamed to all... I think. Any is "as you think in the code" but "all" is what you think when configuring dextool.

Author: Settle for a middleground?

```suggestion
    - *any* : Any (all) mutants are generated.
```

    - *ror* : Relational Operator Replacement.
    - *rorp* : Relational Operator Replacement (Pointer).
    - *lcr* : Logical Connector Replacement.
    - *lcrb* : Logical Connector Replacement (Bit-wise).
    - *aor* : Arithmetical Operator Replacement.
    - *uoi* : Unary Operator Insertion.
    - *abs* : Absolute Value Insertion.
    - *sdl* : Statement Deletion.
    - *cor* : Conditional Operator Replacement.
    - *dcc* : Decision/Condition Coverage.

>     - *dcr* : Decision/Condition Replacement.

Reviewer: replacement -> requirement
The operator *requires* that you kill the mutants that it generates for case-branches compared to dcc where you only need to visit them for the *bomb* to go off.

- --operation : Administrative operation to perform
    -   *none* : Performs no operation.

>     -   *resetMutant* : lets the user reset all mutants with the status/state specified with *--status* to the status specified with *--to-status*.

Reviewer: I am bad at naming. Should be renamed to maybe "setMutantStatus" ?
Otherwise correct description.

Author: Hmm, I think that _resetMutant_ is fine.

I also know that we wrote something about this flag in the laboration somewhere.

>     -   *removeMutant* : TODO

Reviewer: Remove all mutants of the specified kind (--mutant) from the database.

>     -   *removeTestCase* : TODO

Reviewer: Remove all test cases that match the supplied regex.

- --test-case-regex : Regular expression to use when removing test cases.

- --status : Change mutants with this status/state to the value specified by *--to-status-flag*. The typical usage of this option is to reset the mutants with *alive* status to *unknown* in order to conduct mutation testing again after the test suite has been extended.
    - *unknown* : Mutants that is either untested or caused unknown errors when compiling.
    - *killed* : Mutants that were detected by the test suite (one or more tests failed).
    - *alive* : Mutants that were not detected by the test suite (all tests passed).
    - *killedByCompiler* : Invalid mutants generated that caused the compilation of the project to fail.
    - *timeout* : Mutants that timed out during test suite execution.

- --to-status : Reset mutants to status/state (default: unknown). (see *--status*).

>     - *unknown* : Mutants that is either untested or caused unknown errors when compiling.

Reviewer: unknown error when compiling can be removed. It is covered by killedByCompiler. A mutant in the state unknown hasn't been "processed" in any way by the tool

Author: Hmm, this is code from the function _runTester_ in _plugin/mutate/source/dextool/plugin/mutate/backend/test_mutant/package.d_. Should I maybe formulate it differently?

```
try {
    auto p = spawnSession(compile_p.program ~ compile_p.arguments);
    auto res = p.wait;
    if (res.terminated && res.status != 0)
        return Mutation.Status.killedByCompiler;
    else if (!res.terminated) {
        logger.warning("unknown error when executing the compiler").collectException;
        return Mutation.Status.unknown;
    }
} catch (Exception e) {
    logger.warning(e.msg).collectException;
}
```

Maybe something like:
`Mutants that is either untested or caused unknown errors when trying to execute compilation script.`

    - *killed* : Mutants that were detected by the test suite (one or more tests failed).
    - *alive* : Mutants that were not detected by the test suite (all tests passed).
    - *killedByCompiler* : Invalid mutants generated that caused the compilation of the project to fail.
    - *timeout* : Mutants that timed out during test suite execution.

## Analyze

> *Analyze-mode for the plugin. Is used to analyze for mutation points in the project by traversing the AST for the eligible files. Will write results into a database that will be used later for testing and generation of mutants.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Analyze-mode for the plugin. Is used to find mutation points in the project by traversing the AST for the eligible files. Will write results into a database that will be used later for testing and generation of mutants.*
```

- --in : Specific input file to parse. By default, all files in the compilation database will be analyzed.

- --restrict : Restrict analysis to files in this directory tree (default: .). This option can be used to make sure that mutations are not generated for specific files outside a specific directory tree. This option together with a generated compilation-database specified with *--compile-db* lets *Mutate* iterate over every file in the project, and compares their paths to the *restricted area*.

## Generate
*Generate-mode for the plugin. TODO*

- --restrict : Restrict analysis to files in this directory tree (default: .). This option can be used to make sure that mutations are not generated for specific files outside a specific directory tree. This option together with a generated compilation-database specified with *--compile-db* lets *Mutate* iterate over every file in the project, and compares their paths to the *restricted area*.

- --id : Mutate the source code as mutant ID

## Report

> *Report-mode for the plugin. Is used after mutation testing has been conducted in order to generate a result-report. Can also be used to generate specific result that helps a user improve test cases among other.*

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*Report-mode for the plugin. Is used to generate a result-report at any given moment (before, after or during mutation testing execution). Can also be used to generate specific result that helps a user improve test cases among other.*
```

- --logdir : Directory to write log files to (default: .).

- --mutant : Kind of mutation to report.
    - *any* : Any mutant generated.
    - *ror* : Relational Operator Replacement.
    - *rorp* : Relational Operator Replacement (Pointer).
    - *lcr* : Logical Connector Replacement.
    - *lcrb* : Logical Connector Replacement (Bit-wise).
    - *aor* : Arithmetical Operator Replacement.
    - *uoi* : Unary Operator Insertion.
    - *abs* : Absolute Value Insertion.
    - *sdl* : Statement Deletion.
    - *cor* : Conditional Operator Replacement.
    - *dcc* : Decision/Condition Coverage.
    - *dcr* : Decision/Condition Replacement.

- --restrict : Restrict analysis to files in this directory tree (default: .). This option can be used to make sure that mutations are not generated for specific files outside a specific directory tree. This option together with a generated compilation-database specified with *--compile-db* lets *Mutate* iterate over every file in the project, and compares their paths to the *restricted area*.

- --section : Sections to include in the report.
    - *alive* : TODO
    - *killed* : TODO
    - *all_mut* : TODO
    - *summary* : TODO

>     - *mut_stat* : TODO

Reviewer: The top N mutations *from* -> *to* that has survived e.g. "-" to "+".

>     - *tc_killed* : TODO

Reviewer: The mutants that each test case killed

>     - *tc_stat* : TODO

Reviewer: test case statistics based on the number of mutants that are killed

    - *tc_map* : TODO
    - *tc_suggestion* : TODO
    - *tc_killed_no_mutants* : Provide a list of tests that killed no mutant.
    - *tc_full_overlap* : Provide a list of tests that killed the exact same mutants (candidates for redundant test cases).
    - *tc_full_overlap_with_mutation_id* : Provide a list of tests that killed the exact same mutants (candidates for redundant test cases), but include the id of the mutants.
    - *tc_groups* : TODO
    - *tc_min_set* : Provide the minimal set of test cases needed in order to achieve the mutation score.
    - *tc_similarity* : Provide a list of tests and to what degree they are similar in terms of mutants the kill.

>     - *tc_groups_similarity* : TODO

Reviewer: Compare the similarity between test groups. This is a "group" view compared to tc_similarity

    - *treemap* : Generate a treemap for the project (is currently unstable for large projects and files that have very long filenames).

- --section-tc_stat-num : Number of test cases to report that killed a mutant (will affect the drop-down in the html-report).

- --section-tc_stat-sort : Sort order when reporting test case kill stat.

>     - *top* : TODO

Reviewer: sort from top to bottom

    - *bottom* : TODO

- --style : Kind of report to generate. Lets a user specify if the format of the report. This could be used if the report is to be pased into an excel-document, or viewed graphically in the browser etc.
    - *plain* : Generates a plain text summary of the result and prints it in the terminal window.
    - *markdown* : Same as *plain* but in .md-format.
    - *compiler* : Same as *plain* but in compiler-format. TODO?
    - *json* : Same as *plain* but in .json-format.
    - *csv* : Same as *plain* but in .csv-format.
    - *html* : Generates an html-report with all the chosen sections. Is the main way of inspect mutation testing result since many of the other commands for *Report* is linked to this kind of report. Can be viewed in a browser by opening the generated *index.html*-file directly.

## Test

> *Test-mode for the plugin. Injects a mutant into the source code, compiles the project to see if the mutants was valid and then executes the test suite in order to analyze whether or not the test suite detected the mutant. Will also check if the mutant caused an infinity-loop, or simply took longer time than usual, by utilizing the timeout-implementation.*

Reviewer 2: Well formulated! 👍

- --build-cmd : Program/script used to build the application. Will be called upon by *Mutate* in order to compile the application (both for sanity-checks and when a mutant has been injected in the code).

- --dry-run : Do not write data to the filesystem.

> - --mutant : Kind of mutation to test.

Reviewer: This is a repeat of the report
